In this lecture you're going to learn about the useful methods to work with files.
So here we have the path object that references a file, we can check to see
if this file exists, we can rename it to
let's say init.txt. We can delete it by
calling the unlink method. We also have
this stat method that returns information about this file.
So let me comment out these few lines and look at what this method
returns. We get a state_result
object with these attributes, for example, st underline size
this returns the size of this file in bytes, we can also get
the last access time, the last modify time, and the creation
time. Now all these time values are in seconds after epic which
is the start of time on a computer. And that is platform dependent for example
on unix systems the epic time is january 1st,
1970. So to print the human readable time,
on the top, from the time module, you need to import
the c time function. Now from this stat object we can
pick st_ctime that is the
creation time. And then pass it to the c time, function,
let's run this program
so this is the creation time of this file. We also have
a couple methods for reading data from a file so pass.
.read bytes which returns the content of the file
as bytes object when representing binary data, we also have
read_text which returns the content of the file as a string,
so we can simply print the result here, and
this is the content of my py file, now using this method is
easier then built in open function that I have mentioned throughout the course,
with the open function, we'll have to specify the file name,
let's say init.py then we need to specify mode
and this returns a file object so we're going to make sure to close it
so as a best practice we should use the with statement
then get the file object like this, then do something, in
contrast, when we use read_text, all this
magic happens inside of this method so we no longer have to worry about
opening a file, closing it and so on. Similar to read text and
read bytes we have write text,
so we can call it to write some textual data to a file or
path.write_bytes, again both these methods take
care of opening and closing a file. So with this path object, we can
do all kinds of operations for the file. However, when it comes to copying
a file, this path object is not the ideal way
to copy a file. Let me show you. So, I'm going to comment out these few lines,
let's say you want to copy this file to a different location, so I'm
going to rename this path to source and then
I'm going to create a target path, which would be, let's say the current
directory plus init
.py. Now to copy this file we'll have to write code
like this. First we need to write the content of the source so read
text. Then we need to write it to the target so
target.write text like this.
It's a little bit tedious. There is a better way. We have a module called
sh util or shell utilities, and this module
provides a number of high level operations for copying and moving files
and directors. So on the top, let's
import shutil. Now with this module
we can easily copy source,
to target. This approach is cleaner and easier, than
using a path object.